The way to figure out what to work on is by working.
Make good new things.
You can't think well without writing well, and you can't write well without reading well.
Explain what you've learned from users.
An essay has to tell people something they don't already know.
The best place to find undiscovered ideas is where no one else is looking.
When in doubt, optimize for interestingness.
When experts are wrong, it's often because they're experts on an earlier version of the world.
Newton made three bets. One of them worked. But they were all risky.
The statements that make people maddest are those they worry might be true.
You can do what you want, but you can't want what you want.
Brand is what's left when the substantive differences between products disappear.
Branding is centrifugal; design is centripetal.
To write well you have to think clearly, and thinking clearly is hard.
The critical distinction is whether you're producing or just consuming.
Good writing is an elaborate effort to seem spontaneous.
In business, as in war, surprise is worth as much as force.
If you have a specific idea you want to act on, act now.
Fixing sentences that sound bad seems to help get the ideas right.
You'll become like whoever you work with.
There are things founders can do that managers can't.
Relentlessly prune bullshit, don't wait to do things that matter, and savor the time you have.
Startups are a counterexample to the rule that haste makes waste.
You can't just tinker. You have to justify.
Follow the problems.
Curiosity is the best guide.
Just don't wait.
There is no magically difficult step that requires brilliance to solve.
The effort that goes into looking productive is not merely wasted, but actually makes organizations less productive.
However good you are, good colleagues make you better.
Graduation is a bureaucratic change, not a biological one.
Chasing hot deals doesn't make investors choose better; it just makes them feel better about their choices.
The simplest form of determination is sheer willfulness.
The winners slow down the least.
One should help people, and take care of the world.
In the real world you can create wealth as well as taking it from others.
In a startup, things seem great one moment and hopeless the next.
Just work on whatever interests you the most.
The future is simple deals with standard terms, done quickly.
The societies that win will be the ones with the least impedance.
News there was newer, and users will always go where the newest news is.
I try to write using ordinary words and simple sentences.
Human knowledge seems to grow fractally.
The lesson: don't pick cofounders who will flake.
Originality isn't a process, but a habit of mind.
I'm trying to surprise myself.
Starting a startup is too hard for one person.
Aiming for succinctness seems a good way to find new ideas.
Questions lead to more questions.
