An essay has to tell people something they don't already know.
If you're writing for smart people about important things, you're writing for the young.
The impact of an essay is how much it changes readers' thinking multiplied by the importance of the topic.
In practice there's a tradeoff: you can change readers' thinking a lot about moderately important things, or change it a little about very important ones.
The way I usually decide what to write about is by following curiosity.
If you're not sure what to work on, guess. But pick something and get going.
Develop a habit of working on your own projects.
There's a kind of excited curiosity that's both the engine and the rudder of great work.
Knowledge expands fractally, and from a distance its edges look smooth, but once you learn enough to get close to one, they turn out to be full of gaps.
Great work often has a tincture of strangeness.
Boldly chase outlier ideas, even if other people aren't interested in them — in fact, especially if they aren't.
The three most powerful motives are curiosity, delight, and the desire to do something impressive.
You start to figure out how a lot faster than you'd learn anything in a class.
When in doubt, optimize for interestingness.
Try lots of things, meet lots of people, read lots of books, ask lots of questions.
I think writing that sounds good is more likely to be right.
It's less work to read writing that flows well, because the writer is the first reader.
An essay is a cleaned up train of thought, in the same way dialogue is cleaned up conversation.
The sound of writing turns out to be more like the shape of a plane than the color of a car.
If it looks good, as Kelly Johnson used to say, it will fly well.
The way to write something beautiful and false is to begin by making yourself almost believe it.
Make good new things.
The best proof that one has thought well is to make good new things.
Trying to express what you understand is not just a way to prove that you understand it, but a way to understand it better.
Criticism seems sophisticated, and making new things often seems awkward... yet it's precisely those first steps that are most rare and valuable.
It seems not merely unimpressive but dishonest to copy someone else's paper and publish it as your own.
You're just copying yourself if you make the same thing over and over.
The traditional answers were answers to how to be, rather than what to do.
If you're excited about some kind of work not considered prestigious and you can explain what everyone else is overlooking about it, then this is one to seek out.
To write well you have to think clearly, and thinking clearly is hard.
Writing is thinking.
There's a kind of thinking that can only be done by writing.
There will still be smart people, but only those who choose to be.
People pay you for doing what they want, not what you want.
The odds are better when you have strange tastes: when you like something that pays well and that few other people like.
Most big startups began as projects the founders were doing for fun.
The best ideas tend to be such outliers that you'd overlook them if you were consciously looking for ways to make money.
When you have trouble choosing which path to take, it's almost always due to ignorance.
The best way to get more certainty is to try working on things you're interested in.
Don't wait till the end of college to figure out what to work on. The sooner you start, the better.
You'll become like whoever you work with.
If you choose a kind of work mainly for how well it pays, you'll be surrounded by other people who chose it for the same reason, and that will make it even more soul-sucking.
If you choose work you're genuinely interested in, you'll be surrounded by people who are genuinely interested in it, and that will make it extra inspiring.
The root of great work is a sort of ambitious curiosity, and you can't manufacture that.
Hire good people and give them room to do their jobs... what this often turns out to mean is: hire professional fakers and let them drive the company into the ground.
Usually when everyone around you disagrees with you, your default assumption should be that you're mistaken. But this is one of the rare exceptions.
Founder mode will be more complicated than manager mode, but it will also work better.
Look at what founders have achieved already, and imagine what they'll do once we can tell them how to run their companies like Steve Jobs instead of John Sculley.
If your product is only half as good as your competitor's, you don't get half as many customers. You get no customers, and you go out of business.
In all of these, the rich get richer.
You can't understand the world without understanding the concept of superlinear returns.
Whenever how well you do depends on how well you've done, you'll get exponential growth.
The more you know, the easier it is to learn new things.
Knowledge seems to be fractal in the sense that if you push hard at the boundary of one area of knowledge, you sometimes discover a whole new field.
If you do, you get first crack at all the new discoveries to be made in it.
If you're learning a lot, then you're getting exponential growth nonetheless.
As with all the really great startups, there's an uncannily close match between the company and the founders.
Steve's kind of vacuum-cleaner curiosity is exactly what you want when you're starting a site that's a list of links to literally anything interesting.
Reddit was fresher than Slashdot. News there was newer, and users will always go where the newest news is.
Reddit the site is such a fundamentally useful thing that it's almost unkillable.
You can't do that with most companies. Most companies, you take your eye off the ball for six months and you're in deep trouble. But Reddit was special.
Steve is not out of ideas yet.
The trick is to start your own company... you will avoid many of the annoying things that come with a job, including a boss telling you what to do.
It's more exciting to work on your own project than someone else's. And you can also get a lot richer. In fact, this is the standard way to get really rich.
No one can predict the future valuable technology. Just work on whatever interests you the most.
You'll work much harder on something you're interested in.
They know grades and exam results prove nothing.
If you really want to learn to program, you have to work on your own projects.
Imagine you're writing a game... you're going to figure out how a lot faster than you'd learn anything in a class.
The critical distinction is whether you're producing or just consuming.
Don't feel like your projects have to be serious. They can be as frivolous as you like, so long as you're building things you're excited about.
If you start writing your own programs now, by the time you start the company you'll have spent at least 7 years practicing... you can get pretty good at anything after practicing it for 7 years.
Once you're good at some technology, when you look at the world you see dotted outlines around the things that are missing.
The way to get new ideas is to notice anomalies: what seems strange, or missing, or broken?
The best place to look for them is at the frontiers of knowledge.
Knowledge grows fractally. From a distance its edges look smooth, but when you learn enough to get close to one, you'll notice it's full of gaps.
Exploring such gaps yields whole new fractal buds.
Reading about x doesn't just teach you about x; it also teaches you how to write.
Writing is not just a way to convey ideas, but also a way to have them.
A good writer will almost always discover new things in the process of writing.
There is a kind of thinking that can only be done by writing.
You can't think well without writing well, and you can't write well without reading well.
People who just want information may find other ways to get it. But people who want to have ideas can't afford to.
Authenticity is one of the most important things YC looks for in founders, not just because fakers and opportunists are annoying, but because authenticity is one of the main things that separates the most successful startups from the rest.
At YC, the culture was the product.
She can see through any kind of faker almost immediately. Her nickname within YC was the Social Radar.
We funded [Airbnb] because we liked the founders.
We'd refuse to fund founders whose characters we had doubts about even if we thought they'd be successful.
The people we were picking would become the YC alumni network. The level of trust and helpfulness is remarkable for a group of such size. And Jessica is the main reason why.
If Jessica was so important to YC, why don't more people realize it? Jessica hates attention.
You can't watch people when everyone is watching you.
She has a horror of ostentation so visceral it's almost a phobia.
It would have spoiled the narrative to acknowledge Jessica's central role at YC.
If there were intelligent beings elsewhere in the universe, they'd share certain truths in common with us.
If you're trying to find the most general truths short of those of math or physics, they'll be those we'd share in common with other forms of intelligent life.
If an idea might plausibly be relevant to aliens, that's enough.
If there's such a thing as alien truth, then there's more in God's book than math.
One could make the case that the search for alien truth is... a good definition for philosophy.
The attempt to discover alien truths would be a worthwhile undertaking. And curiously enough, that is itself probably an alien truth.
They didn't realize there was any danger in making false predictions.
An epidemic is different. It falsifies your predictions rapidly and unequivocally.
An event like this is a uniquely powerful way of taking people's measure.
It's only when the tide goes out that you learn who's been swimming naked.""
This is the most accurate test of credibility we're ever likely to have.
The reason the percentage of heirs has decreased is not that fewer people are inheriting great fortunes, but that more people are making them.
How are people making these new fortunes? Roughly 3/4 by starting companies and 1/4 by investing.
These are mostly companies that win by having better technology, rather than just a CEO who's really driven and good at making deals.
The rise of the tech companies represents a qualitative change.
Is that really better than a world in which the richest people get rich by starting tech companies?
Why are people starting so many more new companies than they used to? The answer is misphrased: we shouldn't ask why people are starting companies, but why they're starting companies again.
In 1960 it was not really a viable option to start your own company; the prestigious route then was to work your way up the corporate ladder at an existing one.
Making everyone a corporate employee decreased economic inequality... but if your model of normal is the mid 20th century, you have a very misleading model.
The less energy readers expend on your prose, the more they'll have left for your ideas.
The ideas leap into your head and you barely notice the words that got them there.
Fancy writing can also conceal the lack of ideas.
Simple writing also lasts better.
It's not vain to care [about lasting], any more than it's vain for a woodworker to build a chair to last.
The main reason I write simply is that it offends me not to.
Much of this editing is cutting, and that makes simple writing even simpler.
Write in spoken language.
The complex sentences and fancy words give the writer the false impression that you're saying more than you actually are.
You don't need complex sentences to express complex ideas.
Informal language is the athletic clothing of ideas.
If you simply manage to write in spoken language, you'll be ahead of 95% of writers.
Just don't let a sentence through unless it's the way you'd say it to a friend.
It struck me recently how few of the most successful people I know are mean.
Being mean makes you stupid.
Startups don't win by attacking. They win by transcending.
Mean founders lose because they can't get the best people to work for them.
If you want to build great things, it helps to be driven by a spirit of benevolence.
The startup founders who end up richest are not the ones driven by money.
For most of history, success meant success at zero-sum games.
Increasingly you win not by fighting to get control of a scarce resource, but by having new ideas and building new things.
The games played by intellectuals are leaking into the real world, reversing the polarity between meanness and success.
Being mean makes you fail.
Startups are not just one random type of work in which meanness and success are inversely correlated. This kind of work is the future.
If you're talking to someone from corp dev, they want to buy your company.
Ask yourself, 'Do we want to sell the company right now?' If not, tell them, 'Sorry, but we're focusing on growing the company.'
Conversations with corp dev are the worst sort of distraction, because they undermine your morale.
A big mistake founders make is talking to them before they are ready to sell.
If you remember only the title of this essay, you already know most of what you need to know about M&A in the first year.
Procrastination feeds on distractions.
Distraction is not a static obstacle; it seeks you out.
Addictive things have to be treated as if they were sentient adversaries.
The key seems to be visibility.
If you try this trick, you'll be struck by how different it feels when your computer is disconnected from the Internet.
Wow. All I can do at this computer is work. Ok, I better work then.